Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming and today we're talking
about packages. So what are these
mysterious packages that everybody keeps
going on about? What's inside them? That's
the most important question.
Well I think by now you can guess it.
What's inside the packages is of course
blenders and in fact some packages come
with prepackaged fruit
however odd that might seem maybe these
packages are going international or
something that, but let's just stick with
it.
These packages can come with blenders
and with fruit and these packages have
their own designations for instance
these blenders might be designed to work
with ice. These blenders might be
specifically designed to process very
rough fruits or even vegetables and
maybe these of blenders are designed for
something else. In terms of R
programming that basically means that
there are packages that have functions
and maybe some data that are relevant to
certain tasks for instance you might
have functions that are good for
plotting charts and creating graphs then
you might have a package with functions
that is a good for processing very large
data sets then you might have a package
that is full of functions that are good
for processing data frames and working
with them and it might come with some
prepackaged sample data to allow you to
experiment with these functions that you
are installing. So there you go, that's
all there is to these packages. Basically
they allow you to expand the
functionality available to you in your
R programming and so now we're going
to jump into R studio and we'll have a
look at one of those packages but before
we do I wanted to bring up a quote, quote
from statmethods.net and this is
to get one thing out of the way once and
for all so packages are a collection of
R functions data and compiled code in
a well-defined format the directory
where packages the store is called the
library so a lot of people get this
confused packages and libraries
and you'll see why in a second but
basically what we're talking about is
packages library is simply that folder
where packages are going to be stored so
just remember that packages is what we
are after.
Alright so now let's jump into R
studio and what we're going to do is
we're going to open up this tab over
here which is called packages and what
you'll see here is the list of packages
that are currently available to so the
packages that have being downloaded and
that are sitting on your computer and
the blue ones are the ones that are
checked are the ones that are currently
running in this r session, so the ones
that are you can think of it as their
they've been activated so packages that
you can actually use right now so you
can use the functions from them and what
we can do is we can activate additional
packages if we want to and then
deactivate so for instance ggplot2 is
activated now might not be on your
computer or right away so if you want to
deactivate it just uncheck it here or
activate it just check it again and in
fact as you recall we have already used
ggplot2 in the very start of the course
in the intersection we activated this
package and we install it. However back
then we did it very quickly and we
didn't really understand what we're
doing let's talk about it in a bit more
debt to get into the nitty-gritty first
thing we're going to do is we're going
to delete this package all file computer
so I just uncheck we're actually going
to do it let's do that just go to the
right over here and just click click
this cross button it'll ask you, Are you
sure you want to delete this packages and you
say yes and there we go so now the
package has been completely removed from
your computer it's a nowhere to be seen
and what we're going to do now is we're
going to reinstall that package. So one
way to do it is you could click this
install button and you could search for
the package or we're going to do it
through the console just like we did
before but before we do let's explore
what this cran abbreviation stands for
what is cran? Where are these packages
coming from? So it's a saying install from
cran and what does it mean? So in order to
do that we're going to need a browser.
Alright let's open one up and now if in
your browser you go to the following
webpage crand.r-hyphenproject.org,
you'll be presented with
this page and this page is called or
this portal is called the comprehensive
R archived network or basically cran
and that's where the abbreviation comes
from and here basically users of R
because our is a open source program
language anybody can contribute to it,
anybody can look at it and change things
that they want about it so basically
users contribute their packages to this
comprehensive R archived network and
then you are able to download this
packages from there so you could create
a package and you could upload that and
that's where the package of coming from
its only one of the locations are other
locations where r packages are assembled
and they're stored there but cran is by
far the biggest one so now let's go
ahead and install ggplot2 so ggplot2 is
a package for working with graphics what
we're going to do is we're going to type
and install.package, packages and
here you have to put in quotation marks
for this one you type in the name of the
package so its ggplot2 and if you execute
this line what you'll see is that the
installation has just started and now
ggplot2 has appeared here again
so if I expand this a little bit you'll
see exactly what's going on the package
was downloaded from the internet and
then it was installed onto your computer.
Now in order to activate the package
we're going to have to call another
command but before we do that what I
want to show you is that right now there
are some functions that we don't have
access to for instance we don't have
access to qplot, that's a function
from the ggplot package. So if I put a question mark
before qplot you'll see that there's
an error and it's telling us that we
don't have this function nothing was
found
now if I put a question mark and I go ggplot,
and I asked for that
function again it's not there so we
don't actually have it right now even
though the packages installed on the
computer because it's not activated we
don't have it.
Another good one example is the Diamonds
data set so this package does come with
some prepackaged data and it's called
the diamond status it so if i put a
question mark here once again it didn't
find this data set because we haven't
activated the packages, so now let's go
ahead and activate this package to
activate the package you need to type in
the library and then the name of the
package here you don't have to use a
quotation marks but you can if you want
to and then it just activated and now
the package is active you can see that
this check box has been checked by the
way this is where all of the confusion
or most of it comes from that you have
to use a function called library to
activate a package that's why people
think that a package is actually a
library.
Well we've already sorted that out that
package the package and libraries just a
function ever used to activate it. Now
what we're going to do is we're going to
check this function again right so let's
see if we have Q plot there you go now
we've got a quick plot, do we have ggplot.
We've got ggplot and we have diamonds we have
the diamond status set so there we go
that's as simple as it is you are
welcome to explore packages uh to see
what other packages exist and what
packages are available on crime and
before we go today I wanted to give you
a quick teaser of what's coming for the
course let's quickly to step out some
code and I'll show you what this package
can actually allow you to do we've
already seen that in the intersection of
the course and let's have a look again
at something different this time that's
a key plot data equals diamonds and then
we'll take care at that's our X variable
then price they'll be that Y variable
and will say color equals clarity and
we'll say facets will take proportion
color no clarity there we go so if we're
on this code now what we get we get a
beautiful beautiful chart over here
so those are the wonderful things you
can create in a clique of couple of,
in a couple of keyboard strokes if you
have the right package so packages are
very powerful and throughout your work
in R you will get to know more and
more and more packages as you develop
that expertise and I look forward to
seeing you next time and until then
happy coding.